# JTSDK64 Applications and Tools

************************************************************************************
## JTSDK Version 3.2 Stream
************************************************************************************

The **Version 3.2** stream is a learning, discovery and technique refinement experiment.

### Direction

The **JTSDK 3.2.2** evolves the kits from Windows Batch Files towards Windows 
[PowerShell][]-based scripts. [PowerShell][] is also supported in Mac and 
Linux environs, so common-adaptation for these purposes may occur as the kits evolve. 

This started as an experiment to reduce maintenance (i.e. new package versions). 
The deployment environment ** jtsdk64-setup.ps1** will always require hard-coded 
base package support. Once an environment is set up maintenance tasks are simplified.

[PowerShell][] eclipses the capabilities of Windows Batch files. [PowerShell][] 
completely removes needs for capable third-party environments such as [Python][].

### Release Notes: 3.2.2 Base Stream

This README.md file includes deployment instructions. The very latest news - including tips 
to solve issues - can be found at https://hamlib-sdk.sourceforge.io/ ( see https://hamlib-sdk.sourceforge.io/QU.html ).

The **JTSDK 3.2.2** outwardly will appear similar to past kits. Yet the **JTSDK 3.2.2** 
has significant enhancements - centred around Hamlib being deployed now as a DLL - 
in that many of the key commands now accept switches that can make the process of developing 
code quicker and simpler.

The **build-hamlib.sh** now integrates functions formerly performed by **build-hamlib-static.sh** 
and by **build-hamlib-dll.sh** . These scripts are still available in the package as 
**deprecated-build-hamlib-static.sh** and **deprecated-build-hamlib-dll.sh** for those who still need 
these scripts as a guide for their own customisatons.

The **JTSDK 3.2.2** solves a long standing issue with [LibUSB][] support. Most changes 
in this preview incorporate enhancements to the [MSYS2][] environment 
to better support the [LibUSB][]  with Hamlib.

The preferred [MSYS2][] development environment for building Hamlib is now executed by typing 
**mingw64** at the [PowerShell][] prompt.

There is still call for 32-bit/x86 builds. **The build-hamlib.sh** script has been engineered to 
be build environment (**mingw64** or **mingw32**) neutral with no adjustments to code 
being hopefully required.

This base stream now comes with basic **[MSYS2][]** and **mingw64** compilers and tools pre-deployed.

### Release Notes: Tools 3.2.2.x to Tools 3.2.2.6 (current)

**It is recommended that any legacy v3.2.2.1 deployments be updated ASAP.**

The [Tools 3.2.2.3](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.3) package comprises of a number of updates centred on 
resolving the ever increasing number of issues observed with conflicts caused by both the [Qt MinGW](Qt) 
and [MSYS2][] toolsets being in the search path together.

The **jtsdk64.ps1** environment tool now is set to NOT offer the [MSYS2][]toolsets with the 
switch in **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config\Versions.ini** for ***unixtools*** now being recommended 
as set to ***disabled*** i.e. ***unixtools=disabled***.

As of the [Tools 3.2.2.3](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.3) package the [VC Runtime][] is set to Version 17 
(i.e. [Visual Studio][] 2022). This should deploy any runtimes compatible with [Visual Studio][] 2015 
and below.

A minor issue with the delivery of packages in the **X:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\scripts**  directory 
has also been resolved.

There has also been considerable refactoring of the [PowerShell][] environment generated by 
**jtsdk64.ps1** . The ***unixtools=enabled*** option was originally there so as the [MSYS2][]
environment initiator commands **[MSYS2][]** and **mingw64** could be executed from the 
JTSDK64-Tools environment. Access to these tools is now permitted via [PowerShell][] aliases. 
Also note that the **mingw32** environment is also aliased - and that may be explored by 
the maintainers of the [32-bit compilation patches](32bit-compile).

Some environment variables have been renamed. While not really critical, other scripts 
have been modified to reflect this change in nomenclature.

The [Tools 3.2.2.4](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.4) package has been required to be released as [Qt][] no 
longer is released in 32bit/x86 versions. This candidate updates references in the [Qt][] deployment 
scripts to update x86 references to x64references. 

The [Tools 3.2.2.6](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6) package fixes a long term legacy bug with Hamlib 
configuration and LibUSB. Note that [Tools 3.2.2.6](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6) also packages maintainer-built 
versions of LibUSB.

**Note:** The [Tools 3.2.2.6](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6) update should NOT be needed by most "ongoing" users 
with working deployments. The [Tools 3.2.2.6](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6) update is essential for new deployments to 
work properly.

************************************************************************************
**The Project needs contributors - Especially for management and to write Cross-Language Documentation !**
************************************************************************************
## Up To Date Documentation
************************************************************************************

The most up-to date documentation and bleeding-edge notes can be found at:

- https://hamlib-sdk.sourceforge.io/  <== The **Base Site** and the first place to look for information
- https://groups.io/g/JTSDK/	<== The Help Forum

### Project Status

This project is now at the **Release** phase of its life cycle. Primary objectives have 
been met (i.e. [PowerShell][] conversion, Ability to compile latest source code to 
bleeding-edge Hamlib code). 

Future kits will be much smaller in distribution size. You will be required to 
build libraries (i.e. [Boost 1.80](Boost-1.80.0) ) as part of the learning process.

Current packaging preempts known cases of proposed licence and delivery condition changes. 

************************************************************************************
Precompiled drop-in packages for [Boost-1.74.0][], [Boost-1.77.0][], [Boost-1.78.0][], [Boost-1.79.0][] and [Boost-1.80.0][]are available - saving many hours.. 

- [Boost-1.74.0][], [Boost-1.77.0][] and [Boost-1.78.0][] are built with and supplied under Qt's [MinGW 7.3](MinGW) and [MinGW 8.1](MinGW) environs.
- [Boost-1.79.0][] and [Boost-1.80.0][] are built with and supplied under Qt's [MinGW 8.1](MinGW) and [MinGW 11.3](MinGW) environs. 

Extract the folder for the Boost version-package that you want to use into **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\boost** (create the directory if it does not exist) and then remove the -7.3, -8.1 or -11.2 suffix ! 
************************************************************************************
The recommended development environment should be [Qt][] 5.15.2 and [Boost-1.80.0][] 
working with [MinGW 8.1](MinGW) under the **mingw64** [MSYS2][] environment.
************************************************************************************ 

### The Next Steps

Version 4 of the JTSDK will involve strategic re-think. Watch the [JTSDK Forum][] for updates and to contribute.

### Conventions used in this document.

Drive paths will be referred to as **x:\ **, where "x" is the default deployment drive i.e. **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config** .

In most instances **x:\ **can be replaced with **c:\ **

Examples will mostly refer to **c:\ ** for clarity.

### Kit Construction

Most configuration is now based on either marker files in **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config** 
or specified package versions listed in **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config\Versions.ini** . 
See the [JTSDK Forum][] and post comments (or email main contributors found there).

### Support

Heads-up advice from developers is essential. We are not 'enemies'; we are just 
inquisitive. **Nobody asked us to do this - Nobody should have to ask in the AR community**. 
Maintainers work on this to learn. We support the development of the skill base 
and hence reputation of Amateur Radio.

### Added Support and Features

The [Tests][] folder  contains bleeding-edge  efforts to translate and improve 
scripts. Some past scripts may not be able to be eliminated easily or in fact be 
converted at all.

Support for following technologies are **added/enhanced** in these streams:

- Hamlib support for other non-JT-software packages (will occur silently???).
- [Qt][]'s incorporated [CMAKE][] is now the recommended [CMAKE][] tool.
- The version of [Boost][] can be selected in **Version.ini** and will be compiled to the selected version of Qt (including its MinGW release).
- Greater package version self-configuration - hence **less maintenance required**.
- Upgrades to "static" apps that have no generically named latest-version sources

The versions of packages supported are now able to be edited into the kit in one 
place - the **Versions.ini** file. This makes maintenance tasks easier.

### Limitations 

[PowerShell][] scripts are managed to tight security rules. See the next section.

The kits may never be able to move away from the Windows CMD processor and its "Batch 
files" in order to compile JT-software.

Operational techniques have already evolved  i.e. the need for **qt-gen-tc** has been 
eliminated. Some needed techniques to support 'familiarity' also have limits. Ways that 
processes are executed may change.

************************************************************************************
## [PowerShell][] Security Warnings
************************************************************************************

You may receive the following **security notification**:

```
Execution Policy Change
The execution policy helps protect you from scripts that you do not trust. Changing 
the execution policy might expose you to the security risks described in the 
about_Execution_Policies help topic at https:/go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=135170. 
Do you want to change the execution policy?
[Y] Yes  [A] Yes to All  [N] No  [L] No to All  [S] Suspend  [?] Help (default is "N"):
```

It is safe to select **Y**. These scripts are not any processor flaw tests. Remember
that developing these scripts is also a learning exercise for the Development Team.

### Windows Environment Variables 

The basic concept of supporting **Windows Environment Variables** through [PowerShell][]
**$env:<env-var>** facilities that ease access into [CMAKE][], QMake and the MinGW compilers 
will remain a cornerstone concept.

************************************************************************************
## Upgrades from Versions earlier than Base 3.2.2
************************************************************************************

The [JTSDK64-Base-3.2.2][] can be installed over the top of previous kits - yet it is 
highly recommended that one start from scratch. 

** `It is recommended that kits are deployed into Virtual machines (see "Deployment" section).` ** 

It is highly recommended that a new, fresh deployment be considered with each new base package release.

You can keep old deployment(s) by closing all open environment windows and renaming the deployment folder (i.e. **C:\JTSDK64-Tools** to **C:\JTSDK64-Tools-Old**) 

If you need to revert back to your old deployment then all you need do is rename that folder back to its original filename (i.e. **C:\JTSDK64-Tools-Old** back to **C:\JTSDK64-Tools**) 

************************************************************************************
## Maintenance Updates: "Tools" Packages
************************************************************************************

Maintenance updates will be applied in the form of "Tools" packages. These packages 
are designed to be deployed to an existing "Base" package and/or Base package with earlier Tools Package applied.

A Tools package can only be applied to a matching Base release. i.e. You cannot apply a [Tools 3.2.2.6](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6) 
package to a JTSDK64-Base-3.2.1][] - based deployment.

### Application of Maintenance "Tools" packages

"Tools" packages are updates to the "Base" environments.

*These steps assume that you have a deployed base environment*

- Download any "Tools" packages from https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/ 

************************************************************************************
**Note:** The current "Tools" package is  [JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6.exe](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6).
************************************************************************************

- Deploy the tools package to your JTSDK install directory.

Updates may apply to the [MSYS2][] environment. Therefore the "profile" directory for 
[MSYS2][] may be deleted and re-created.

************************************************************************************
The current "Tools" package [JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6.exe](JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6) does not delete the profile nor update [MSYS2][] scripts.
************************************************************************************

Before any updates (manual from "[Tests][]" or from a "Tools" package) you should backup your [MSYS2][] Environment:

- Copy any folders stored under **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\msys64\home** to a backup location. This should enable you to access previous work.
- Close any open [MSYS2][] environment terminal(s).
- Perform the system upgrade.
- Delete folders that exist under **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\msys64\home**.

i.e: [PowerShell][]: ** Remove-Item "C:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\msys64\home\*" -Recurse -Force **

- Re-open [MSYS2][] with the **[MSYS2][]** command inside the [PowerShell][] terminal

**Note:** The **src** directory in your backup shoudl contain your previous work. It 
is safe to copy this enture foler across to your new [MSYS2][] Profile.

You will need to pull down your Hamlib repository again and/or restore any custom work 
to folders created within the [MSYS2][] environment. See Step 3b below.

************************************************************************************
## Deployment
************************************************************************************
 
### Preparation: Deploy a Virtualisation Environment

It is recommended to deploy the JTSDK into a fresh Windows Virtual Machine. For those 
unfamiliar with "Virtual Machines" and "Virtualisation Technologies" you shoud refer to  https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/virtualization/what-is-virtualization .

** Note:** Almost EVERY CPU that Runs Windows x64 these days has virtualisation support.

If you have concerns please refer to https://www.technorms.com/8208/check-if-processor-supports-virtualization . 

There are lots of virtualisation environments available. Click on the links below to 
obtain details on how to deploy these systems:

- [Hyper-V][]
- [VMWare Workstation][] 
- [VMware Player][]
- [Virtual Box][]

Trial Virtual Machine images for Windows 10 (with Microsoft's Compiler Suite) can 
be downloaded from https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/virtual-machines/ . 
These Virtual machines should have a lifetime of at least 30 days.
 
### Step 1: Deploy the JTSDK64-Base-3.2.2.exe Installer and any "Tools" packages if they exist
 
** Note that these instructions assumes a fresh Windows 10 Virtual Machine is used **

- Deploy the installer [JTSDK64-Base-3.2.2][] inside a FRESH, FULLY UPDATED WINDOWS 10 or 11 VM.
- Deploy the latest "Tools" Packages if they exist ( i.e. [JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6][] ) to your Base Deployment.

It is recommended to use all the initial default settings and file locations.
 
### Step 2: Launch the Installation Environment
 
- Launch the **JTSDK64-Setup** environment from the link on your desktop

```
-------------------------------------------
           JTSDK Setup v3.2.2.6
-------------------------------------------

  Required Tool Status

     VC Runtimes ... Not Installed
     Git ........... Not Installed
     OmniRig ....... Not Installed

  Qt Script-Provisioned Tool Chain Status

     x64:

     MinGW 7.3 ..... Qt Not Installed
     MinGW 8.1 ..... Qt Not Installed
     MinGW 11.2 .... Qt Not Installed

     x86:

     MinGW 4.9 ..... Qt Not Installed
     MinGW 7.3 ..... Qt Not Installed
     MinGW 8.1 ..... Qt Not Installed
     MinGW 11.2 .... Qt Not Installed

  Optional Component Status

     VS Code ....... Not Installed
     Boost ......... Not Installed

  Post Install / Manual Setup Commands

     Main Install .. postinstall
     MSYS2 Shell ... msys2

PS C:\JTSDK64-Tools>
```

- At the PowerShell prompt type: **postinstall**

The following information will be displayed:

```
------------------------------------------------------
  JTSDK64 Tools Post Install/Redeployment Selections
------------------------------------------------------

 At the prompts indicate which components you want to
 install or redeploy.

 For VC Runtimes, OmniRig, Git, MSYS2 and VS Code use
 --> Y/Yes or N/No

 For the Qt Install Selection:

   D / Y = Default ( minimal set of tools )
   F = Full ( full set of tools )
   N = Skip Installation

 NOTE: VC Runtimes, Git, Qt and MSYS2 are mandatory
 to build JT-software.

 Enter Your Install/Redeployment Selection(s):

(required) VC/C++ Runtimes (Y|N) ..: 
```
- The VC Runtimes are required. Select 'Y'

```
(required) OmniRig (Y|N) ..........:
```
- The OmniRig is required. Select 'Y'
```
(required) Git-SCM (Y|N) ..........: 
```
- The Git-SCM is required. Select 'Y'
```
(required) Default Qt (D/Y|F|N) ...:
```
Qt Presents a number of options. 'D' or 'Y' Selects a scripted "Default" 
deployment being Qt 5.15.2 as the base. 'F' Deploys 5.15.2 and 6.3.1. 

- Qt is required. Select 'Y'/'D' or 'F' (note:'Y' or 'D' is recommended)
```
(required) MSYS2 Setup (Y|N) ......:
```
- You are required to set up the [MSYS2][] environment. Select 'Y'
```
(optional) VS Code (Y|N) ..........:
```
This is the only optional component. VS Code is an excellent tool for working with 
[PowerShell][] scripts (if you need to customise these yourself).

Note that deploying VS Code is not mandatory for JTSDK operation.

- Select 'Y' or 'N'

You are then presented with the selections you have made:
```
* Your Installation Selections:

  --> VC Runtimes .: Y
  --> OmniRig .....: Y
  --> Git .........: Y
  --> Qt ..........: Y
  --> MSYS2 .......: Y
  --> VS Code .....: Y
```

During this phase some tools will require some interaction at the keyboard or via the 
mouse (especially the Qt deployment as one MUST now have their own account and agree 
to their licensing terms).
************************************************************************************
Follow on-screen prompts carefully.
************************************************************************************ 
**Step 2a: Prepare the [MSYS2][] Environment**
 
A [MSYS2][] environment window will open as part of the **postinstall** process. 
```
JTSDK64 Tools MSYS2 (MSYS) using QT v

For main menu, type ..: menu
For Help Menu, type ..: jthelp

Copyright (C) 2013-2022, GPLv3, Greg Beam, KI7MT and Contributors.
This is free software; There is NO warranty; not even
for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

hamlibdk@jtsdk ~
$ menu
```
- Type: **menu**
```
-------------------------------------
JTSKD64 Tools Main Menu
------------------------------------

 1. Set MSYS2 path to find Qt compilers
 2. Update MSYS2
 3. Install Hamlib dependencies
 4. Install msys64 GNU Compilers
 5. Update MSYS2 Keyring
 6. Build Hamlib - Static Libraries
 7. Build Hamlib - Dynamic Package
 8. Clear Hamlib Source
 9. Select HAMLIB Repository
 h. List help commands
 v. List version information

 e. Enter 'e' or 'q' to exit

Enter your selection, then hit <return>:
```
 
**Step 2b: Update the  [MSYS2][] Environment**
 
- Select **2. Update MSYS2** to update the [MSYS2][] environment. 

Note that the window may close on completion if there are updates. 

- If the [MSYS2][] Window closes reopen it within the **JTSDK64-Setup** environment by typing **[MSYS2][]** at the [PowerShell][] environment prompt.

- If the update process requests that you close the open **[MSYS2][]** terminal then close the window. Re-open the environment by typing **[MSYS2][]** at the [PowerShell][] environment prompt.

- Repeat these steps if neceessary until there are no more updates available.
 
**Step 2c: Update the  [MSYS2][] Environment**
 
Note: As of [JTSDK64-Base-3.2.2][] these steps are now already performed for you. It is still recommended that 
you go through these steps just in case any dependencies have changed. 
 
- If the [MSYS2][] Window closes reopen it within the **JTSDK64-Setup** environment with **[MSYS2][]**

- Back at menu, select **3. Install Hamlib Dependencies** to deploy the tools and libraries needed to build Hamlib.

- When Option 3 has completed, Select ** 4. Install msys64 GNU Compilers ** so that a msys64 POSIX-compliant build environment can be launched.
 
**Step 2d: Basic Deployment Complete**

Once complete you can exit the **JTSDK64-Setup** environment (i.e. close the **JTSDK64-Setup** and any [MSYS2][] terminal shells) 
 
### Step 3: Set Up The Main Tools Environment
 
- Launch the **JTSDK64-Tools** environment from the icon on your desktop.
 
**Step 3a: Upgrade your Qt Deployment**
 
A Minimum Qt installation pegs at [Qt][] at version 5.15.2. If you did not use the "F" Full option for [Qt][] deployment or you 
want to add additional Qt versions - i.e. test 6.3.1 version - you should do so now. 

**The use of Qt 5.15.2 is the Qt deployment for JT-ware. Qt6 streams are not yet supported.**

**It is not recommended that versions of Qt below Qt 6.3.1 / MinGW 11.2 be used in this JTSDK**

To add an additional version of Qt to the default Qt 5.15.2 version:

- Navigate to the Qt Deployment directory
- Run the Qt Maintenance Tool from your Qt deployment directory (i.e. **C:\JTASK64-Tools\tools\Qt**)

To add Qt 6.3.1:

- Add Qt 6.3.1 MinGW
- Ensure that components Qt 6.3.1/MinGW 11.2.0 64 bit and Qt 6.3.1/Qt5 Compatability Module are added.
- Select Qt 6.3.1/All Additional Libraries .
- Add Developer and Designer Tools / MinGW 11.2.0 64-bit
- (Recommended) Add the OpenSSL 1.1.1x toolkit (it helps with a WSJTX download).

On Completion:

- Adjust the maker file in **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config** marker file to match the Qt version that you want to use 
- i.e. rename **qt5.15.2** to **qt6.3.1**

************************************************************************************
There must only be ONE marker file for Qt in **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config**

If the system abends with a warning check the **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config** directory and remove the unwanted item with the prefix 'qt'
************************************************************************************

**Step 3b: Deploy Hamlib for our selected Qt Version.**
 
In **JTSDK64-Tools**:

- Launch the [MSYS2][] environment with: **mingw64**
- Type: **menu**
- Select **7. Build Hamlib - Dynamic Libraries**

************************************************************************************
**Note:** If you have difficulties packaging [Hamlib][] with [JTDX][] and/or [JS8CALL][] you may need to use the The **build-hamlib.sh** script from the [MSYS2][] mingw64 terminal as follows:

- **build-hamlib.sh -nlibusb -static**
************************************************************************************

This will take time as it pulls from the master repository for Hamlib. 

Source distribution repositories can be changed by changing the marker file in **x:\JTSDK64-Tools\config** 

- Valid options are: **hlmaster** (default and recommended), **hlw4mdb**, **hlg4wjs** or **hlnone** for no default pull and update.

**Note:** As Bill G4WJS is now SK this repository may not be maintained. It is highly recommended ONLY to pull from the **MASTER** repository.

**Step 3c: Deploy Boost for our selected Qt/MinGW Version.**
 
***THIS IS SLOW***. There are "dropins" available on the Sourceforge and GitHub sites if you are lazy. Yet the best procedure is to build your own.

In the JTSDK64-Tools environment:

- Type: **Deploy-Boost**

Around 90 minutes later you should now have a deployment of Boost based at the recommended v1.74.0 (configurable in **C:\JTSDK64-Tools\config\Versions.ini**) that is suitable to build JT-software under your selected Qt version on your machine.

************************************************************************************
Pre-compiled drop-in Packages for [Boost-1.74.0][], [Boost-1.77.0][], [Boost-1.78.0][], [Boost-1.79.0][] and [Boost-1.80.0][] are available at the time of writing.

Each “drop-in” package has folders i.e. 1.74.0-7.3 for [MinGW 7.3](MinGW) (pre-Qt 5.15) and 1.74.0-8.1 (for post-Qt 5.15 including the 6.x.x streams). 
 
The drop-in package for  [Boost-1.79.0][] now supports [MinGW 8.1](MinGW) and [MinGW 11.2](MinGW) .
  
- Extract the folder for the Boost version-package that you want to use into **C:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\boost** (create the directory if it does not exist) and then remove the -7.3 or -8.1 suffix ! 

A Windows symbolic link will work too: i.e.: Assume that both the 1.74.0-7.3 and 1.74.0-8.1 distributions have been unpacked from **Boost-1.74.0-MinGW-v7.3-v8.1.7z** to **C:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\boost** . Assume that the command shell or [PowerShell][] windows are positioned at **C:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\boost**

Examples:

- Cmd:** mklink /D 1.80.0 1.80.0-8.1 **
- [PowerShell][]:** New-Item -ItemType SymbolicLink -Path C:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\boost\boost-1.80.0 -Value C:\JTSDK64-Tools\tools\boost\boost-1.80.0-8.1 **
 
The preference is to build your own Boost package and NOT use these ! ** Warning: Boost does not build 100% properly and to full capability under MinGW/[MSYS2][] environments that we use – yet its good enough for our purposes !**
************************************************************************************
A script **Reset-Boost.ps1** is available to reset any failed attempts at building Boost.
************************************************************************************
**Environments should now be complete for building JT-ware**
************************************************************************************

Now that seemed a lot of work. Please dissect these scripts to see what actually took place !
 
### Step 4: Build your JT-Software
 
Now we are ready to BUILD a JT-release. 

The release-source-code pulled is for the latest JT-software release. The JT-source that you pull is configurable from **C:\JTSDK64-Tools\config**. Rename the file **src-wsjtx** from a default pull of WSJT-X to either **src-jtdx** or **src-js8call** if desired. 

The "major" used JT-ware distributions are supported without discrimination or political comment.

In JTSDK64-Tools:

- Type: **jtbuild** <option>     i.e. **jtbuild package**
 
Options preferred are package (a Windows Installer package - the preferred "clean" way) and rinstall (just a static directory full of "runnable" files).

************************************************************************************
## Additional Options for Developers
************************************************************************************

Both the **jtbuild** and **build-hamlib-** scripts now contain a number of switches that can be used to disable default features of the scripts.

Use the embedded **help** facilities to discover the currently available set of switches:

i.e. 1:  In The **[PowerShell][]** Environment:

```
PS C:\JTSDK64-Tools> jtbuild -h

--------------------------------------------
 Default Build Commands
--------------------------------------------

 Usage .....: jtbuild [ OPTION ] [[ SWITCH ]]

 Examples...: jtbuild rinstall
            : jtbuild rinstall -ng

 Options:

    rconfig    Release, Config Only
    dconfig    Debug, Config Only
    rinstall   Release, Non-packaged Install
    dinstall   Debug, Non-packaged Install
    package    Release, Windows Package
    docs       Release, User Guide

 Switches:

    Switches only work if an [ OPTION ] is supplied.

    -nc        Do not run configure
    -ng        Do not check/pull source

 * To Display this message, type .....: jtbuild -h

PS C:\JTSDK64-Tools>
```

i.e. 2:  In The **[MSYS2][]** Environment (i.e. **mingw64** at the [PowerShell][] prompt):

```
$ build-hamlib.sh -h

---------------------------------------------------------------
 BUILD-HAMLIB - HELP
---------------------------------------------------------------

* Available Command Line Options:

  --> -h ........: Help
  --> -b/-nb ....: Process / Do not process bootstrap
  --> -c/-nc ....: Process / Do not process configure
  --> -g/-ng ....: Process / Do not pull/check source from GIT repository
  --> -libusb ...: Configure with LibUSB support
  --> -nlibusb ..: Do not configure with LibUSB support
  --> -static ...: Statically Linked Libraries built
       or ..
  --> -dynamic ..: Shared/Dynamically Linked Libraries built

* Note: You cannot select -static with -dynamic

  If using switches you may need to combine options to over-ride default build behaviour:

  i.e.: build-hamlib -nb reverts to Hamlib default STATIC build behaviour
        build-hamlib -nb -dynamic over-rides this behaviour

radio@jtsdk ~
$
```

************************************************************************************
## Contributions
************************************************************************************

### How Can I Help?

Please test these scripts and those in the [Tests][] folder. Report observations either 
via the [JTSDK Forum][] or the email address where most most messages come from (if 
you cannot post). The [JTSDK Forum][] is used somewhat as as 'blog' as information in 
there is too valuable for the general IT community.

***The 'core team' behind this are not [PowerShell][] gurus.*** This is a learning effort. 
If you are a [PowerShell][] guru PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE jump in and comment to assist. Send 
back BETTER SCRIPT. **Teach us all**. 

We especially require people to make these README.md scripts better !

** ALL CONTRIBUTIONS AND COMMENTS ARE GRATEFULLY WELCOMED ** !

### Bug Reports

For submitting bug reports and feature requests, use the [Issue Tracker][]. 

Reports, suggestions and comments via the [JTSDK Forum][] - or via the email addresses 
from main contributors there of late if you do not have post access - are essential.

************************************************************************************
## Conclusion and Further References
************************************************************************************

The aim of **JTSDK64-Tools** is to use an Agile delivery approach to create a
high-quality, yet flexible build system. 

Base ref: https://sourceforge.net/projects/jtsdk/files/win64/3.1.0/README.md

[Open Source]: https://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source
[WSJT]: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/
[WSJT-X]: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/wsjtx.html
[JTDX]: https://jtdx.tech/en/
[JS8CALL]: http://js8call.com/ 
[OmniRig]: http://dxatlas.com/OmniRig/Files/OmniRig.zip 
[MAP65]: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/map65.html
[WSPR]: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/wspr.html
[CMAKE]: https://CMAKE.org/
[MSYS2]: https://www.msys2.org/
[MinGW]: http://www.mingw.org/
[Qt]: https://www.qt.io/download-open-source 
[PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/[PowerShell][]/
[Ant]: https://ant.apache.org/
[Gradle]: https://gradle.org/
[Maven]: https://maven.apache.org/
[PostgreSQL]: https://www.postgresql.org/
[Python]: https://www.python.org/
[Anaconda]: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual
[PyPy]: https://www.pypy.org/
[Miniconda]: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html
[Dotnet Core SDK]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/sdk
[Java]: https://www.java.com/en/
[Java Open JDK]: https://adoptopenjdk.net/
[InnoSetup]: http://www.jrsoftware.org/isinfo.php
[Hamlib]: https://hamlib.github.io/
[LibUSB]: https://libusb.info/
[JTSDK Sourceforge]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/jtsdk/files/win64/3.1.0/
[JTSDK Forum]: https://groups.io/g/JTSDK/messages
[32bit-compile]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-x86-Patches/ 
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.1.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/jtsdk/files/win64/3.1.0/jtsdk64-tools-3.1.0.exe
[JTSDK64-Apps-3.1.0.2]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/jtsdk/files/win64/3.1.0/jtsdk64-apps-3.1.0.2.exe
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.1.1.4]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.1-Stream/JTSDK64-Tools-3.1.1.4.exe
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.0.7]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.0.7.exe
[JTSDK64-Apps-3.1.1]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.1-Stream/JTSDK64-Apps-3.1.1.exe
[JTSDK64-Base-3.2.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Base-3.2.0.exe
[JTSDK64-Base-3.2.0a7]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Tests-3.2.2/JTSDK64-Base-3.2.0a7.exe
[JTSDK64-Base-3.2.1]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Base-3.2.1.exe
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.1.1]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.1.1.exe
[JTSDK64-Base-3.2.2]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Base-3.2.2.exe
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.2]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.2.exe
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.3]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.3.exe
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.4]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.4.exe
[JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/JTSDK64-Tools-3.2.2.6.exe
[Git]: https://git-scm.com/
[VS Code]: https://code.visualstudio.com/Download
[Issue Tracker]: https://sourceforge.net/p/hamlib-sdk/tickets/
[Package Updates]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.1.1-x64-Stream/Package-Updates/
[Boost]: https://www.boost.org/
[Boost-1.74.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Boost-1.74.0-MinGW-v7.3-v8.1.7z
[Boost-1.75.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Boost-1.75.0-MinGW-v7.3-v8.1.7z
[Boost-1.76.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Boost-1.76.0-MinGW-v7.3-v8.1.7z
[Boost-1.77.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Boost-1.77.0-MinGW-v7.3-v8.1.7z
[Boost-1.78.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Boost-1.78.0-MinGW-v7.3-v8.1.7z
[Boost-1.79.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Boost-1.79.0-MinGW-v8.1-v11.2.7z
[Boost-1.80.0]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Boost-1.80.0-MinGW-v8.1-v11.2.7z
[WSJT-X Support Forum]: mailto://wsjt-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
[Tests]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Tests/
[WSJT-X 2.2.3]: https://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/k1jt/wsjtx-2.2.3.tgz
[WSJT-X 2.3.0]: http://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/K1JT/wsjtx-2.3.0.tgz 
[WSJT-X 2.4.0]: https://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/k1jt/wsjtx-2.4.0.tgz
[WSJT-X 2.5.0 rc6]: https://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/k1jt/wsjtx-2.5.0-rc6.tgz
[WSJT-X 2.5.4]: https://physics.princeton.edu/pulsar/k1jt/wsjtx-2.5.4.tgz
[Archive]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Windows/JTSDK-3.2-Stream/Archive/
[Fl-Apps]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/fldigi/files/
[DotNET SDK]: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download
[PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/overview?view=powershell-7.2
[PowerShell Section]: https://sourceforge.net/projects/hamlib-sdk/files/Programming/PowerShell/
[Windows VM]: https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/virtual-machines/
[Hyper-V]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/hyper-v-on-windows/quick-start/enable-hyper-v
[VMWare Workstation]: https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/2057907
[VMware Player]: https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/2053973
[Virtual Box]: https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
[QEmu]: https://www.qemu.org/download/
[VC Runtime]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-170
[Visual Studio]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/
